# SoC-Loan-approval-Predict
Following repo contains all the files relevant to my institute's Summer of Code event in which I am participating and working on the project "Loan Approval Prediction".
### Week 1
In week one, we learnt the basics of python like lists, dictionaries,loops, arrays etc. And also how to use google colab and Jupyter. This helped in getting me familiar with python. Later on, we had a simple assignment on basics of python which covered all the topics taught in first week. I had some troubles in working with jupyter initially but regular use made me familiar with it. Although I found out I was more comfortable with google colab so decided to use it for the rest of the project. The <B>Week_One_Assignment.ipynb</B> is the notebook in which I solved first week's assignment.
### Week 2
In week 2 we learnt about numpy, pandas and matplotlib and how to import files into colab and about the mathematics of Machine learning. This helped me in understading how to understand large amounts of data and draw conclusions from it. The <B>Pandas.ipynb</B> notebook was provided in the video about pandas for viewers to solve it to get a good grasp and practice of the vast number of functions. Later on, we were given an assignment, which I solved in the <B>Week_Two_Assignment.ipynb</B> and found that it could be solved with just using pandas. It covered plotting, statistical analysis and basic functions like printing.
### Week 3
In week 3, we had to delve into the mathematics of machine learning. First we learnt what actually is machine learning and then about the various popular algorithms for ML, like Linear regression, K nearest neighbors, Decision tree classifier etc. Although the mathematical part was quite hard to grasp, it was interesting to know how ML actually works and what happens behind the screen.
### Week 4
Next came data preprocessing. Previous week made me realise that it is important to feed good input to the model as we are just gonna be applying mathematical formulas in it and so bad input will mean bad output. Therefore, data preprocessing is probably the most important part of making ML models. We learnt about data cleaning, handling missing values and how it can be done in python. Also about label encoding and one hot encoding which allows one to convert categorical values into mathematical so that they become compatible with the algorithms.
### Week 5
In this final week, we had to get our hands dirty by applying everything we learnt into the <B>LoanStatus.csv</B> dataset. I was also very pleased to learn that I need not actually apply the rigorous mathematics as pythons has this nice <I> little </I> library called "scipy" which has all the algorithms that I will be applying, namely, Decision trees, k nearest neighbors, gaussian naive baye's and logistic regression built in it. So after preprocessing these data and applying the algorithms using scipy in the <B>Implementation.ipynb</B> notebook, I found that I was able to achieve the best accuracy of 78.9% using the logistic regression algorithms which concluded this extremely enjoyable learning experience.
